This packet tracer lab is a continuation of a previous Packet Tracer lab. In the previous lab, you were
asked to subnet 192 168 1.0 slash 24 and break it up into subnets for site 1 and site 2
and you were asked to configure subnets on those sites as well as on the serial links. In this lab you
need to subnet the network again to extend and conserve IP addresses an additional site has been added
to the lab site 3.
What you need to do is take the subnet 192 168 1 64 slash 26 and subnet that to support this third
site as well as to reuse the subnet for the three serial connections.
Serial links only need a slash 30 mask so you need to subnet the last new subnet that you get from
192 168 1 64 slash 26 and you slash 30 masks so that you can allocate that subnet to the 3 serial
links.
So what you need to do once again is break up 192 168 1 64 slash 26 to support as many subnets as
possible with 8 hosts per subnet to allocate the first new subnet to site 3.
So in the words on the local area network over here and then take the last new subnet that you get
from 192 168 1 64 and subnet that with slash 30 masks and then allocate those subnets to the serial
links you need to configure the routers appropriately so this router needs to use the first IP address
in the new subnet.
This router the last one and the same is true for the other sites, on the local area network at site 3,
router 4 should use the last IP address in the new subnet the switch the second last IP address in the
subnet and the hosts should be allocated IP addresses from the first available IP address to the last
available IP address.
You're gonna configure the IP addresses in the subnet manually.
Previously we used DHCP to allocate IP addresses to PCs but in this subnet, you're gonna use static
IP addresses.
Now once you've configured the network verify that PCs can access cisco.com and facebook.com
using their browsers, cisco.com and facebook.com are websites on the Internet.
You need to verify that your PCs, PC 6 7 and 8 can access the Internet as well as choose a PC
in site 1 and site 2 and make sure that they can also access cisco.com and facebook.com
So can you complete this lab, download the packet tracer file and see if you can complete the lab
yourself.
Otherwise watch the next video where I complete the lab.